---
layout: post
title:  "New Personal Computer"
date:   2021-06-12 22:01:00 +1300
categories: homelab
tags: equipment 
---

I have been using Macintosh as my main development machine since collage years. In my opinion it was a step up compared to Windows XP and it has been a popular choice for software development. Apple computer in the 2010s were one of the most powerful and upgradable machine, with stable OS and easy to use developer tools. Up until recently, my last personal machine was a 2011 iMac with upgraded 16GB ram and 256GB SSD in fusion drive. 
   
However, recently I built a new PC for my future experiments, which I haven't built one for over a decade now. I have choosen this path because of both hardware and software reasons. This will be a slight departure of my software mythodolgies blog, and documenting my journey of learning and experimenting the new capabilities at home.

* New Personal Computer ( You are here )
* A Server and a Development Machine - Unraid 

Here is the specification if you must know.

> AMD Ryzen 5900x with 12-core CPU  
> 64GB memory
> Nvidia 2070 8GB memory
> 2x1TB SSD storage
> 3x3TB Harddrive 
> Fractal Meshify 2 case
> Noctua NF-A14 and NH-D15 fan

## Picking Right Hardware For The Right Job

Most software development jobs should provide a computer for obvious reasons. Companies would standardized a few models for the entire company for different purposes. Such as a laptop for work from home purpose or a full desktop for its high performance. 

> Tip: There are also companies that provide you a 15 year old 2nd hand machine. In that case, you should prepared to run or continue to read on.

Although higher budget usually means a better machine, not all high performance machine are created equal. As my previous example, a laptop would be more expansive because of its mobility.

I would look at a machine in 4 areas:

* General Processing Power ( i.e. CPU )
* Memory Capacity  
* Storage
* Graphical Processing Power ( i.e. GPU )

A machine learning development focused machine is different than mobile application development, with high-end graphics card to accelerate the learning process. 

Conversely, a machine focused on virtualizations and containerizations will have high core counts CPU ( i.e. 12-core or more ), higher capacity memory ( i.e. 64GB or more ) but emptherize much less on graphics card.

> Note: I designed my new machine to do both

### Noise IS a Factor

There are many factors beside machine performance and space. One of the most important requirement for me, and Linus Torvald, would be its fan noise during operation[1]. It is not necessary to have a slient fan-less PC, but it should blend in to the enviornment and not distracting.

A poorly placed fan will have unnecessary turbulence noise, or inadequate cooling causing the fan will rapidly spin up and down during program compilation.

Reserving some budgets on quality cooling solution will significantly provide a better working experience.

A much less common source of noise from modern PC was hard drive. It's high rotational speed and physical moving parts, creates distinctive vibrations and clicking sound. It should not be used for main storage device, such as storing programs, and replaced by Solid State Drive ( SSD ) would easily provide massive performance improvement.

## This Might Be Useful Someday

Although this is a about building a PC at home, I think it is relateable at work too. There were mulitple times in my software development career to propose a specification for a development machine, or upgrading existing hardware. 

Having good work equipment could boost productivity team morale and attract talents too[2]. I would not work for a company just because of fancy hardware, but putting it in job advertisement does bring my attention. 

## Every Software Developer Should Build a PC Once  

There 


. why not just get one 


Linus Torvalds 





create a developer spec machine 






## Reference

[MegaProcessor](https://youtu.be/lNa9bQRPMB8)

[1][Build a PC, Part IX: Downsizing - Codeing Horror](https://blog.codinghorror.com/building-a-pc-part-ix-downsizing/)

[Look what's inside Linus Torvalds' latest Linux development PC](https://www.zdnet.com/article/look-whats-inside-linus-torvalds-latest-linux-development-pc/)

